README.md, before:

# 1 Hephaestus Arm v2

This robot is for use in RBE 3001 as a teaching platform for robot kinematics and trajectory planning and image recognition. 

<img src="photos/assembly.jpg" width="600">



## 1.1 READ THIS SECTION BEFORE YOU DO ANYTHING

You need to follow all instructions in this guide **in order**, doing steps out of order means you may need to take apart the robot or risk breaking a component. 

Read through each section completely and then do the actions in the guide. Doing this will make sure you have an understanding of why and what you are doing. 

## 1.2 Dependancies and Tools

### 1.2.1 Linux Install
You need to install Ubuntu 18.04 on your personal computer.

[How to install Ubuntu](ubunutu_install.md)

The rest of the guide assumes you have a base familiarity with the linux terminal and Ubuntu.

If you do not, here are resources to help you get familiar

* [Ubuntu UI Help](https://youtu.be/lmeDvSgN6zY?t=68)
* [Terminal Basics](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/command-line-for-beginners#1-overview)






### 1.2.2 Required Programs 

Once you have Linux open a terminal (Ctrl+Alt+t) and run the following commands 

```
	sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 71EA898B 
	sudo apt-get install software-properties-common
	sudo apt-get update 
	sudo apt-get install curl git putty zip unzip
	sudo adduser $(whoami) dialout
```

The programs installed are
* curl (allows you to get files from the internet)
* git (allows you to access and work with code repositories)
* zip/unzip (allows you to zip and unzip files)

Next set up the udev rules to communicate with the arm
* [Download this file](81-neuronrobotics.rules)
* Run the below commands
```
	sudo cp ~/Downloads/81-neuronrobotics.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/81-neuronrobotics.rules # Moves the folder to the required location 
	sudo udevadm trigger # Updates udev rules to include the new file
```


### 1.2.3 Required Tools 

Tools in this section you **will** need to complete the build. If you are missing any of the required tools contact an SA and they may be able to provide workarounds.

Items that start with :wrench: are found in the [Bookstore Tool Kit](https://wpi.bncollege.com/shop/BNCB_TextbookDetailView?displayStoreId=32554&urlRequestType=Base&catalogId=10001&productId=650018123733&langId=-1&partNumber=98_844002999&storeId=32554&sectionId=97501629&item=N).

* [Needle Nose Pliers](https://www.amazon.com/Tools-VISE-GRIP-Pliers-6-Inch-2078216/dp/B000A0OW2M/ref=sr_1_3?dchild=1&keywords=needle+nose+pliers&qid=1598832659&s=industrial&sr=1-3)

* :wrench: [Ph1 Screw Driver](https://www.amazon.com/Wera-05118024001-Kraftform-Electronics-Screwdriver/dp/B0001P18M8/ref=sr_1_3?crid=5UV2I9OLZR1P&dchild=1&keywords=ph1+screwdriver&qid=1598832754&sprefix=ph1+s%2Caps%2C181&sr=8-3)

* :wrench: [Wire Stripper](https://www.pololu.com/product/1923)

* :wrench: [Soldering Iron](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/14456)

* :wrench: [Soldering Stand](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9477)

* :wrench: [Lead Free Solder](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/aven-tools/17551LF/243-1341-ND/5252791)

* [Double Sided Foam Tape](https://www.amazon.com/Scotch-Mounting-0-75-inch-350-inches-110-LongDC/dp/B009NP1OBC)

* [Wire Kit](https://www.amazon.com/REXQualis-Breadboard-Assorted-Prototyping-Circuits/dp/B081H2JQRV)

### 1.2.4 Useful Tools 

Items that start with :wrench: are found in the [Bookstore Tool Kit](https://wpi.bncollege.com/shop/BNCB_TextbookDetailView?displayStoreId=32554&urlRequestType=Base&catalogId=10001&productId=650018123733&langId=-1&partNumber=98_844002999&storeId=32554&sectionId=97501629&item=N).

Tools in this section you **might** need to complete the build.

* :wrench: [Solder Wick](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9327)

* [Zipties](https://www.amazon.com/Cable-Nylon-Locking-Pieces-Black/dp/B07VRSQ6YL)

* :wrench: [Digital Multi Meter](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/12966)

* [220 Grit Sandpaper](https://www.amazon.com/Fandeli-36027-Multipurpose-Sandpaper-25-Sheet/dp/B00WSVNHBS/ref=sr_1_2?crid=1YRPC72JKS2L9&dchild=1&keywords=220+sandpaper&qid=1598832549&s=industrial&sprefix=220+s%2Cindustrial%2C169&sr=1-2)

Feel free to source these tools from wherever is nearby and cheap, this is just the first amazon link or what was included in the tools kit. 

# 2 Unboxing and Understanding Your Kit. 

The goal of this section is to give you an understanding of your kit and the parts in it. This section assumes you have purchased the [RBE 3001 Main kit](https://wpi.bncollege.com/shop/BNCB_TextbookDetailView?displayStoreId=32554&urlRequestType=Base&catalogId=10001&productId=650018123743&langId=-1&partNumber=98_844003009&storeId=32554&sectionId=97501637&item=N) and the [RBE 3001 Camera kit](https://wpi.bncollege.com/shop/BNCB_TextbookDetailView?displayStoreId=32554&urlRequestType=Base&catalogId=10001&productId=650018123744&langId=-1&partNumber=98_844003010&storeId=32554&sectionId=97501637&item=N).

## 2.1 RBE 3001 Main Kit


<img src="photos/mainkit2.jpg" width="600">

*Note the box in the image is not included get your own. 

 3x - [Smart Servo Kit](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B081CTX6DM/ref=twister_B0817ZKWF9): Servo Motor that drives the main 3 joints of the arm,along with a cord and servo horns.

 1x - [Power Supply](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/mean-well-usa-inc/GST60A07-P1J/1866-2147-ND/7703710): Provides power to arm, via a DC jack.

 1x - [Adafruit ItsyBitsy](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3800) : The microcontroller for the arm.

 1x - [USB Cable](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07232M876/) : A wire to connect the ItsyBitsy to their computer.

 1x - [Double Header Pins](https://www.pololu.com/product/1065) : Pins to connect wires and the ItsyBitsy to the breadboard.

 1x - [Thrust Bearing](https://www.mcmaster.com/5909k41) : A ring of bearings for the base joint.

 2x - [Thrust Bearing Surface](https://www.mcmaster.com/5909K54-5909K54) : A metal ring to support the thrust bearing.

 20x - [Heat-Set Inserts](https://www.mcmaster.com/94180a361) : Threaded inserts for the 3D printed parts (sold in packs of 50).

 7x - [M5x25](https://www.mcmaster.com/91292A129-91292A129) : Long bolts to assemble arm (sold in packs of 50).

 13x - [M5x12](https://www.mcmaster.com/91290A228) : Short bolts to assemble arm (sold in  pack of 100).

 1x - [Gripper Servo](https://www.digikey.com/products/en/motors-solenoids-driver-boards-modules/motors-ac-dc/178?k=mg92b) : A servo to operate the gripper.
   
 1x - [Power cord](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/mean-well-usa-inc/YP12-YC12/1866-5006-ND/7707223) : Used to power the arm.

 3x [Metal horn](https://www.amazon.com/Magic-Shell-Aluminum-Standard-Accessories/dp/B07KR5Q1Y9) sold in packs of 5

 12x [M3x10 bolts](https://www.mcmaster.com/91290A115/) 

 1x	Barrel_Jack	   Digikey PN: CP-102AH-ND	
 
 2x	Conn_01x03_Male	   Digikey PN: PPPC031LFBN-RC	
 
 3x	Conn_01x03_Male	   Digikey PN: 455-1705-ND	

 1x	SW_SPDT		   Digikey PN: OS102011MS2QS1	

 2x	SW_SPST		   Digikey PN: 486-3460-ND	

 1x	74126		   Digikey PN: 296-8221-5-ND	
 
 2x     1x14 header        https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/sullins-connector-solutions/PPTC141LFBN-RC
 
*Note if you did not purchace the camera kit you will need to buy a [button](https://www.digikey.com/products/en?mpart=367&v=1528 ) to assemble the robot. Or if you are approved to go on campus you can get one from the Foisie lab. 


### 3D Printed Parts

<img src="photos/mainkit1.jpg" width="600">

1) 1x - Base: The arm's base

2) 1x - Link 3 Bracket: The middle link of the arm

3) 1x - Main Gripper Body: The main part of the gripper mechanism

4) 1x - Gripper Claw: The mobile part of the gripper

5) 1x - Link 1 Output Bracket: The part of the base joint that will rotate

6) 1x - Link 3 Output Bracket: The panel to hold the smart servo at the gripper's base

7) 1x - Camera Stand Base: A part to mount a threaded stand to the board

8) 1x - Board: A wooden board to mount the arm

9) 1x - Link 2 Output Bracket: A bar with five holes to mount a servo horn

10) 1x - 3 Hole Bar: A bar with three holes for holding a servo

11) 5x - Orb: Pink, yellow, purple, green, and black colored orbs


## 2.2 RBE 3001 Camera Kit

<img src="photos/camerakit.jpg" width="600">

## Camera Kit v2
(Not the camera kit provided to students for A20)

1) 1x [Camera](http://www.webcamerausb.com/elp-usb-security-camera-low-light-1080p-sony-imx322-hd-sensor-h264-voice-recording-pinhole-spy-camera-for-video-conference-p-236.html) 

# 3 Build the electronics

This next step of instructions will guide you in assembeling the elctronics for the arm and then calibrating the servos.

[Wire the electronics](solderElectronics.md)

# 4 Build the arm

[Build instructions](assembly.md)

# 5 Calibrating the arm

![Calibration Pose](armCalibration.png) 

![Calibration Pose](photos/calibrationPose.jpg) 

From now on, all you need to do to calibrate the arm is move the robot to the calibrate pose and hit the calibration button on the breadboard. **You will need to  calibrate the robot every time the ItsyBitsy is power cycled.** 

## 6 Matlab Setup

[Setup Matlab and begin working](https://github.com/Hephaestus-Arm/RBE3001_Matlab)

# 7 Extras

## 7.1 Communication

[Communication Protocol](protocol.md)

## 7.2 CAD and simulation

Open BowlerStudio, in the menu

```
Add device -> creatures -> Hephaestus Arm V2
```


This will generate the CAD and run the simulation. 

## 7.3 STL's 

[Current Release Printable STL's and laser cut SVG](https://github.com/Hephaestus-Arm/HephaestusArm2/releases/)

Print these with supports everywhere, do not reorent the parts. They are printed in this orientation to increase operating strength.

# 8 Troubleshooting

[See the troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting.md)

Commit message:

update for wget and login manager
testing for option in comments

README.md, after:

# 1 Hephaestus Arm v2

This robot is for use in RBE 3001 as a teaching platform for robot kinematics and trajectory planning and image recognition. 

<img src="photos/assembly.jpg" width="600">



## 1.1 READ THIS SECTION BEFORE YOU DO ANYTHING

You need to follow all instructions in this guide **in order**, doing steps out of order means you may need to take apart the robot or risk breaking a component. 

Read through each section completely and then do the actions in the guide. Doing this will make sure you have an understanding of why and what you are doing. 

## 1.2 Dependancies and Tools

### 1.2.1 Linux Install
You need to install Ubuntu 18.04 on your personal computer.

[How to install Ubuntu](ubunutu_install.md)

The rest of the guide assumes you have a base familiarity with the linux terminal and Ubuntu.

If you do not, here are resources to help you get familiar

* [Ubuntu UI Help](https://youtu.be/lmeDvSgN6zY?t=68)
* [Terminal Basics](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/command-line-for-beginners#1-overview)






### 1.2.2 Required Programs 

Once you have Linux open a terminal (Ctrl+Alt+t) and run the following commands 

```
	sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 71EA898B 
	sudo apt-get install software-properties-common
	sudo apt-get update 
	sudo apt-get install curl git putty zip unzip
	sudo adduser $(whoami) dialout
```

The programs installed are
* curl (allows you to get files from the internet)
* git (allows you to access and work with code repositories)
* zip/unzip (allows you to zip and unzip files)

Next set up the udev rules to communicate with the arm
<!--* [Download this file](81-neuronrobotics.rules)-->
<!-- login manager without locking issues (need to test on more varied hardware first) -->
<!-- sudo apt-get install sddm  -->
* Run the below commands
```
	wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cbennet/HephaestusArm2/master/81-neuronrobotics.rules # Download rules file
	sudo cp ~/Downloads/81-neuronrobotics.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/81-neuronrobotics.rules # Moves the folder to the required location 
	sudo apt-get install lightdm # the default login manager can disable the mouse and keyboard so this installs an alternate
	sudo udevadm trigger # Updates udev rules to include the new file
```


### 1.2.3 Required Tools 

Tools in this section you **will** need to complete the build. If you are missing any of the required tools contact an SA and they may be able to provide workarounds.

Items that start with :wrench: are found in the [Bookstore Tool Kit](https://wpi.bncollege.com/shop/BNCB_TextbookDetailView?displayStoreId=32554&urlRequestType=Base&catalogId=10001&productId=650018123733&langId=-1&partNumber=98_844002999&storeId=32554&sectionId=97501629&item=N).

* [Needle Nose Pliers](https://www.amazon.com/Tools-VISE-GRIP-Pliers-6-Inch-2078216/dp/B000A0OW2M/ref=sr_1_3?dchild=1&keywords=needle+nose+pliers&qid=1598832659&s=industrial&sr=1-3)

* :wrench: [Ph1 Screw Driver](https://www.amazon.com/Wera-05118024001-Kraftform-Electronics-Screwdriver/dp/B0001P18M8/ref=sr_1_3?crid=5UV2I9OLZR1P&dchild=1&keywords=ph1+screwdriver&qid=1598832754&sprefix=ph1+s%2Caps%2C181&sr=8-3)

* :wrench: [Wire Stripper](https://www.pololu.com/product/1923)

* :wrench: [Soldering Iron](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/14456)

* :wrench: [Soldering Stand](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9477)

* :wrench: [Lead Free Solder](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/aven-tools/17551LF/243-1341-ND/5252791)

* [Double Sided Foam Tape](https://www.amazon.com/Scotch-Mounting-0-75-inch-350-inches-110-LongDC/dp/B009NP1OBC)

* [Wire Kit](https://www.amazon.com/REXQualis-Breadboard-Assorted-Prototyping-Circuits/dp/B081H2JQRV)

### 1.2.4 Useful Tools 

Items that start with :wrench: are found in the [Bookstore Tool Kit](https://wpi.bncollege.com/shop/BNCB_TextbookDetailView?displayStoreId=32554&urlRequestType=Base&catalogId=10001&productId=650018123733&langId=-1&partNumber=98_844002999&storeId=32554&sectionId=97501629&item=N).

Tools in this section you **might** need to complete the build.

* :wrench: [Solder Wick](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9327)

* [Zipties](https://www.amazon.com/Cable-Nylon-Locking-Pieces-Black/dp/B07VRSQ6YL)

* :wrench: [Digital Multi Meter](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/12966)

* [220 Grit Sandpaper](https://www.amazon.com/Fandeli-36027-Multipurpose-Sandpaper-25-Sheet/dp/B00WSVNHBS/ref=sr_1_2?crid=1YRPC72JKS2L9&dchild=1&keywords=220+sandpaper&qid=1598832549&s=industrial&sprefix=220+s%2Cindustrial%2C169&sr=1-2)

Feel free to source these tools from wherever is nearby and cheap, this is just the first amazon link or what was included in the tools kit. 

# 2 Unboxing and Understanding Your Kit. 

The goal of this section is to give you an understanding of your kit and the parts in it. This section assumes you have purchased the [RBE 3001 Main kit](https://wpi.bncollege.com/shop/BNCB_TextbookDetailView?displayStoreId=32554&urlRequestType=Base&catalogId=10001&productId=650018123743&langId=-1&partNumber=98_844003009&storeId=32554&sectionId=97501637&item=N) and the [RBE 3001 Camera kit](https://wpi.bncollege.com/shop/BNCB_TextbookDetailView?displayStoreId=32554&urlRequestType=Base&catalogId=10001&productId=650018123744&langId=-1&partNumber=98_844003010&storeId=32554&sectionId=97501637&item=N).

## 2.1 RBE 3001 Main Kit


<img src="photos/mainkit2.jpg" width="600">

*Note the box in the image is not included get your own. 

 3x - [Smart Servo Kit](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B081CTX6DM/ref=twister_B0817ZKWF9): Servo Motor that drives the main 3 joints of the arm,along with a cord and servo horns.

 1x - [Power Supply](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/mean-well-usa-inc/GST60A07-P1J/1866-2147-ND/7703710): Provides power to arm, via a DC jack.

 1x - [Adafruit ItsyBitsy](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3800) : The microcontroller for the arm.

 1x - [USB Cable](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07232M876/) : A wire to connect the ItsyBitsy to their computer.

 1x - [Double Header Pins](https://www.pololu.com/product/1065) : Pins to connect wires and the ItsyBitsy to the breadboard.

 1x - [Thrust Bearing](https://www.mcmaster.com/5909k41) : A ring of bearings for the base joint.

 2x - [Thrust Bearing Surface](https://www.mcmaster.com/5909K54-5909K54) : A metal ring to support the thrust bearing.

 20x - [Heat-Set Inserts](https://www.mcmaster.com/94180a361) : Threaded inserts for the 3D printed parts (sold in packs of 50).

 7x - [M5x25](https://www.mcmaster.com/91292A129-91292A129) : Long bolts to assemble arm (sold in packs of 50).

 13x - [M5x12](https://www.mcmaster.com/91290A228) : Short bolts to assemble arm (sold in  pack of 100).

 1x - [Gripper Servo](https://www.digikey.com/products/en/motors-solenoids-driver-boards-modules/motors-ac-dc/178?k=mg92b) : A servo to operate the gripper.
   
 1x - [Power cord](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/mean-well-usa-inc/YP12-YC12/1866-5006-ND/7707223) : Used to power the arm.

 3x [Metal horn](https://www.amazon.com/Magic-Shell-Aluminum-Standard-Accessories/dp/B07KR5Q1Y9) sold in packs of 5

 12x [M3x10 bolts](https://www.mcmaster.com/91290A115/) 

 1x	Barrel_Jack	   Digikey PN: CP-102AH-ND	
 
 2x	Conn_01x03_Male	   Digikey PN: PPPC031LFBN-RC	
 
 3x	Conn_01x03_Male	   Digikey PN: 455-1705-ND	

 1x	SW_SPDT		   Digikey PN: OS102011MS2QS1	

 2x	SW_SPST		   Digikey PN: 486-3460-ND	

 1x	74126		   Digikey PN: 296-8221-5-ND	
 
 2x     1x14 header        https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/sullins-connector-solutions/PPTC141LFBN-RC
 
*Note if you did not purchace the camera kit you will need to buy a [button](https://www.digikey.com/products/en?mpart=367&v=1528 ) to assemble the robot. Or if you are approved to go on campus you can get one from the Foisie lab. 


### 3D Printed Parts

<img src="photos/mainkit1.jpg" width="600">

1) 1x - Base: The arm's base

2) 1x - Link 3 Bracket: The middle link of the arm

3) 1x - Main Gripper Body: The main part of the gripper mechanism

4) 1x - Gripper Claw: The mobile part of the gripper

5) 1x - Link 1 Output Bracket: The part of the base joint that will rotate

6) 1x - Link 3 Output Bracket: The panel to hold the smart servo at the gripper's base

7) 1x - Camera Stand Base: A part to mount a threaded stand to the board

8) 1x - Board: A wooden board to mount the arm

9) 1x - Link 2 Output Bracket: A bar with five holes to mount a servo horn

10) 1x - 3 Hole Bar: A bar with three holes for holding a servo

11) 5x - Orb: Pink, yellow, purple, green, and black colored orbs


## 2.2 RBE 3001 Camera Kit

<img src="photos/camerakit.jpg" width="600">

## Camera Kit v2
(Not the camera kit provided to students for A20)

1) 1x [Camera](http://www.webcamerausb.com/elp-usb-security-camera-low-light-1080p-sony-imx322-hd-sensor-h264-voice-recording-pinhole-spy-camera-for-video-conference-p-236.html) 

# 3 Build the electronics

This next step of instructions will guide you in assembeling the elctronics for the arm and then calibrating the servos.

[Wire the electronics](solderElectronics.md)

# 4 Build the arm

[Build instructions](assembly.md)

# 5 Calibrating the arm

![Calibration Pose](armCalibration.png) 

![Calibration Pose](photos/calibrationPose.jpg) 

From now on, all you need to do to calibrate the arm is move the robot to the calibrate pose and hit the calibration button on the breadboard. **You will need to  calibrate the robot every time the ItsyBitsy is power cycled.** 

## 6 Matlab Setup

[Setup Matlab and begin working](https://github.com/Hephaestus-Arm/RBE3001_Matlab)

# 7 Extras

## 7.1 Communication

[Communication Protocol](protocol.md)

## 7.2 CAD and simulation

Open BowlerStudio, in the menu

```
Add device -> creatures -> Hephaestus Arm V2
```


This will generate the CAD and run the simulation. 

## 7.3 STL's 

[Current Release Printable STL's and laser cut SVG](https://github.com/Hephaestus-Arm/HephaestusArm2/releases/)

Print these with supports everywhere, do not reorent the parts. They are printed in this orientation to increase operating strength.

# 8 Troubleshooting

[See the troubleshooting guide](troubleshooting.md)
